►Agile - Agile is a methodology that delivers software or value incrementally from the start of the project instead of all the project at the end. It's iterative and time boxed.
►It works by breaking the project down into little bits of user functionality called user stories, prioritizing them and then continuously delivering them in show 2 week cycles called sprints(iterations).
►Analysis, design, coding and testing are continuous activities.

AGILE Principles:
►customer satisfaction by early and continuous delivery of useful software
►welcome changing reqs even if late in development
►working software is delivered frequently
►close, daily cooperation between business people and developer.
►face to face communication is the best form of communication
►working software is principle measure of success
►continuous attention to technical excellence and good design
►only build what is really essential
►self organizing teams
►regular adaptation to changing circumstance.

Key points:
►Velocity: The number of story points delivered over a sprint
►Swimlanes: representation of stories and the status To do, doing, done on (X-Axis)
►Minimum Viable Product(MVP): The minimum product that meets the client's expectations.
►Release: Comprised of several iterations or sprints.
►Sprint: Period of time in which team will work on defined set of user stories.

The Agile Team:
►Product Owner: Represents the or is the end customer.
►Scrum Master: Facilitates team meetings.
►Delivery Team: People in charge of execution or part of project's implementation.

Tools:
►Burn Down Chart: shows remaining work to be done, progress over time and team's velocity.
►Kanban/Agile board: Visual / pull system to track work and progress in a logical / basic flow

Rituals:
►Sprint Planning: Meeting where team defines which user stories they will work on in an upcoming sprint.
►Daily standups: Team shares what they did yesterday, what they are doing today.
►Sprint Review: Meeting where team presents what they had delivered over a sprint to the project owner.
►Retrospectives: Meetings done after sprints to review, revise and adjust.

