File Allocation Table (FAT) 32 - bit released with Windows 95. Due to its lightweight design and high compatibility with multiple Operating Systems, it has stayed relevant. FAT32 has a file size limit of 4GB and a volume limit of 2TB. Examples are embedded systems, IoT devices, USB storage devices, camera memory storage, legacy devices, and more. The size of a sector is 512 bytes.

Attackers often use USBs formatted with FAT32 due to its high compatibility with different OSs and lack of permissions. Unlike NTFS, FAT32 does not include functionality for folder and file permissions. This means anybody can access a file or folder on a FAT32 partition. This offers attackers some flexibility to abuse FAT32.

Stuxnet: An infamous attack that used some of the above techniques is Stuxnet, a worm that was used in an unprecedented attack against Iran’s nuclear program. The initial access vector was a USB containing the Stuxnet worm as mentioned in the official report of the NATO Cooperative Cyber Defense Center of Excellence. A USB was used because the targeted systems were air-gapped (No connection to the internet or other networks). The main reason that FAT32 would have been used is its compatibility with a broad range of different OSs and their versions. The attacker had to ensure that when the USB was inserted into a targeted system, it could read and automatically execute the USB’s content. Additionally, due to the lack of permissions on the FAT32 filesystem, the USB content did not have to be executed by an administrator account.

FAT32 Structure:
A FAT32 partitioned volume typically consists of the following parts:

Reserved Area:- The reserved area contains the important filesystem structures required for the volume to function. The reserved sector always starts from sector 0 on the partition and includes:
	Boot sector: Sector 0-1.
	FSinfo sector: Sector 1-2.
	**Sectors 2 to 5 are reserved sectors.
	Backup boot sector: starts at sector 6.
	Additional reserved sectors: start from sector 7 and stretch until the start of the FAT area. We need to analyze the boot sector to determine the complete size of the Reserved Area.
FAT Area
	File Allocation Table (FAT1)
	Backup File Allocation Table (FAT2)
Data Area
	Root Directory
	Data Region

Boot Sector: first sector (sector 0) on a FAT32 partitioned volume. It contains the metadata of the partition. This information is essential for the OS to know how to access the partition, where to look for the File Allocation Table, where the Root Directory is located, and where the Data Region begins. Let’s have a look at the available metadata. The highlighted fields are interesting when doing boot sector analysis.
proper byte structure from the fat32 thm room.

FAT Area: The FAT area contains the File Allocation Table (FAT1) and its backup (FAT2) and has the following functions:

It contains information about the allocation of clusters to a file or directory and the next free clusters.
It helps with the fragmentation (data stored in non-contiguous clusters) of files. It keeps track of all the clusters that are assigned to a file.
It does integrity checking to identify bad clusters and mark them not to be used for storing data. Each entry in the FAT is 32 bits, but only 28 bits are effectively used. It is this 32-bit value that is referenced in the filesystem name FAT 32.

Used Cluster
A cluster chain consists of one or more clusters. Each entry in the data area has exactly one cluster chain assigned. The Used cluster field indicates the index number of the next cluster that is part of the chain. 

End of File
The End of File field is to indicate that the cluster at that index is the last cluster of the chain. Note: The values  0F FF FF FF  and  FF FF FF FF  are both used for marking the end of a cluster chain. The difference lies in the first 4 bits that are reserved. Some tools process these bits, others do not. The FF FF FF FF  representation is a simplified representation that does not take those 4 bits into account. Generally, it is recommended by standards to use the 0F FF FF FF  value.

